---

layout: default
title: Syllabus
date: 2017-09-11

---

# The Web and Democracy

Is the Internet making the world a better place or is it simply remaking the world – peacefully transferring capital from 20th century corporations to 21st century ones? If the digital space is becoming primary, then who is tending to the systems of self-government, defined so articulately in the age of Enlightenment?

This Web research elective asks students to design tools that further the public's interest online. Can the Web – designed as an open and free medium – reinvigorate our investment in public space and the public good? Students will work together to engage politicians, non-profits, and fellow citizens in the pursuit of these questions.

Assignments will range from Web tools that serve democracy to civic fundraising to information dissemination. Class deliverables will be a combination of prototypes, presentations and coded mini-sites. Students will develop the parameters for the final project and work in teams. Outside collaborators and readings will enrich the conversation and the work. No previous web experience required, but Web Programming workshop strongly encouraged.

### Course particulars

* Fall 2017, Mondays, 8am—1pm, D.C. # 404
* Instructor: John Caserta, jcaserta@risd.edu
* Office hours, Tue/Thur 9:30a-12p, D.C. # 704
* GRAPH 3173, 3 credit elective
* wd.risd.gd -- https://github.com/risd-gd/wd

## Learning Objectives

* To put the Web in service of the common good instead of the marketplace
* To gain skills in Sketch, HTML/CSS and user-centered design methods
* To encourage better citizenry
* To better understand how organizations work and who they serve
* Be empowered to participate in the the web and in public


## Guests

* [Ryan Laughlin](http://www.rofreg.com/) on Open Data APIs, Sep 18
* [Danny Chapman](http://dannychapman.com/) on accessibility and the Web, Sep 25
* Councilwomen Nirva LaFortune (Prov) and Meghan Kallman (Pawtucket), Oct. 16
* [Prof. Ethan Zuckerman](https://www.media.mit.edu/people/ethanz/overview/) on democratic Web platforms, TBD

## Outside class activities

* Cynthia Smith, CooperHewitt Curator, at Better World By Design
* Thursday, October 5, City Council Meeting at 7pm, City Hall
* City Tree plantings, Saturdays in October, TBD

## Key Bibliography

* Clay Shirky, *Here Comes Everybody*
* By The People, Building a Better America, CooperHewitt
* Jean-Jacques Rosseau, *The Social Contract*
* Bonnie Honig, *Public Things: Democracy in Disrepair*


<!--

* The Web as a parallel to government... transparent, accessible.
* Nutritional label for mortgages (nytimes)
* Wikipedia as example of transparent, open, with historical info
* Website for a city... as citizen facing... as community building (gov.uk site)
* Nathan Schneider at CU who wrote a piece about Twitter users buying Twitter.
* Write reviews --- public websites, accessibility, etc (design them)
* Vote on certain aspects of the course (or maybe at middpoint for final)
* An interface that improves over time (AI)
* Look at more current technologies and hear about debacles: LA touch screen, IDEO
* Voter Field Guides, Center for Civic Design
* Black Mirror episode with game show voting
* Voter Awareness: Home page for library computers, Voter turnout
* Information Dissemination
* Usability: accessibilty guidelines
* Reaching everyone.... giving everyone access

Where does Net Neutrality go?
Audits of existing things

-->
<!--
### Class tools

* Slack? Facebook Group? Hashtags? Google Alerts on relevant topics (Net Neutrality)
* [Are.na Web & Democracy Channel](https://www.are.na/john-caserta/web-and-democracy)

### Code demos

Depending on where students are at with building skills, we can play a few demos and how-to sessions. Some suggestions:

* Using GitHub Pages
* US Web Standards framework (download and use it)
* Flex and Grid layouts
* Responsive layouts
-->

## Introduction

### Week 2: Sept 18, 2017

* Review progress from week one
* Presentation on The Design Office; visit to The D.O.

##### Guest & In-Class Activity

* Ryan Laughlin on APIs. Presentation of his work with public data. Demo of APIs.


##### For next week

* Start in class:  *Assignment 1: Part Two*: Either take some thing from Open Data and turn it into a form that people would understand. Or Collect data from your public site and imagine it on the site. Create your own data source that tells something about the community you live in.


### Week 3: Sept 25, 2017

* Review open data assignment; Progress on larger site
* Student Presentation 1

##### Guest & In-Class Activity

* Danny Chapman on accessibility. Design a voter information guide using Web Standards framework. How might it "continue" to inform after the election?

##### For next week

* Finish project one. Also potentially work with Web Standards Framework.


<!--
## Unit 2: The voting machine

Soliciting user feedback while developing software is useful. It's also central to democracy. What does a group of people think? What do they want? Voting machines are evolving technologies, with each machine introducing its own mechanical and human flaws – the butterfly ballot that cost Al Gore the 2000 Presidential election, as an example. What can designers learn from the research done on voting to aid their own process?


### Week 4: Oct 2, 2017

##### Reference / Readings

* Video Novello shared
* Brief lecture about government voting machines
* Look at more current technologies and hear about debacles: LA touch screen, IDEO
* Voter Field Guides, Center for Civic Design
* Black Mirror episode with game show voting


##### For next week


* *Assignment 2*: How does voting engage its constituents? How specific should questions be framed to get desired outcomes? Do voters remember their choices? Create an "election" for one of the constituencies that you belong to (a project, dorm, GD, RISD, etc). What are you trying to know? How should people vote? What are your goals for turnout? Include aspects of representative democracy (vote for a person or a proxy) and direct democracy (voting on issue where the outcome determined by majority).

##### Guests

* Dana Chisnell on how to solicit feedback

-->

## Unit 2: From private to public

Capitalism and democracy are strange bedfellows. Capitalism collects wealth and power, with that power seeking growth at all costs. In this unit, we seek how to divert our consumptive and creative attention away from private interests to the common good – to public interests. What can be learned from the tremendous innovation being funded by the private sector? How might innovations meant for ease and commerce be diverted into the social good in the form of tools, systems, and the like?

#### Readings/References

* [Here's my plan to save Twitter](https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2016/sep/29/save-twitter-buy-platform-shared-ownership)
* [The Case for a Taxpayer-Supported Version of Facebook](https://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2017/05/the-case-for-a-taxpayer-supported-version-of-facebook/524037/)
* [Zello tops US app store as the walkie-talkie for hurricane volunteers](https://techcrunch.com/2017/09/10/zello-tops-us-app-store-as-the-walkie-talkie-for-hurricane-volunteers/)


### Week 4: Oct 2, 2017

* Review  *Project 1*
* Discuss unit 2

Project Two: Visit the Providence City Council and propose a project based on the meeting. There are many things you could do (from augmented reality layers, to getting more people to attend, etc). Given the unit quesetion, consider how what the private sector has learned might work for the public.

### Week 4: Oct 9, 2017
* Share your findings from the Council meeting. Revise for next week.

<!--
##### Discussion / References

* To come

##### In-class Activity


##### For next week

* *Assignment 2: Part One: Research*: Visit at least two public libraries and familiarize yourself with their core systems. Get a library card, try to find material. See if various materials exist at your existing library versus the private sector, etc. Additionally, research the work of the private sector as it affects the library sector: Amazon, Google Books, Film/Video resources, etc.

* Go to the Providence City Council Oct. 5 meeting.

-->

### Week 6: Oct 16, 2017

* Generate questions for City Councilwomen Megan Kallman (Pawtucket) and Nirva LaFortune (Prov.)


## Unit 3: Digital to physical
Can the Web, a "fast" medium (low effort, high volume), lead to "slower" more meaningful interactions/investments from constituents? In other words, how might the Web get someone off their screen and put their body alongside of others? Can the Web encourage participation from communities that tend to not participate in governance?

<!--
* Visit street tree planting on Saturday Oct 21

 #### Readings/Reference
* NYC Street Trees
* AIGA/NY Hurricane Sandy Design/Relief
* Code for America
* Change by Us (Local Projects), See Vimeo
* Civil Debate Wall (Local Projects)
* Hangout with opposite viewpoint
* Archon Fung, Harvard, Participedia
Zello
-->




## Unit 4: Discussion, Conversation and Debate

140 characters plus the like button have destroyed debate on the Internet. Early blogging felt more like publishing. How do we of differing opinions discuss now? How do you change someone's mind? Can the Web facilitate this discussion, perhaps make the face-to-face discussion more palatable when it does happen. How do concerns over privacy affect free and open discussion?


<!--

### Week 9: Nov 6, 2017
### Week 10: Nov 13, 2017

#### Assignments / Activities

* Propose a tool (or hack an existing one) to foster a civil civic discourse;


#### Readings/Reference

* Why We Argue (And How We Should): A Guide to Political Disagreement. Scott Aiken.
* Civic Debate Wall
* StoryCorps
* Wikipedia

#### Guests

* Ethan Zuckerman on MIT news aggregator
-->


## Unit 5: Open Assignment

The class will hone in on three to four projects. Discuss/vote and work in teams to scope and execute the project. The project should address the basic question: how can the web ameliorate democracy: to inform people, to encourage elevated discussion, participation... all the issues we've discussed over the semester. We will also discuss how to put together projects from the semester into a website for distribution.


### Class review on Week 12: Dec 4, 2017; Project delivery by Dec 11, 2017

## Grading/Assessment

Grades from A to F will be given at the end of the semester with the above criteria. This course is a required course that is seeking a certain level of competency with typography. The criteria above is meant to assess as objectively as possible a student’s proficiency in typography.

* Attendance (3rd absence fails the course)
* Participation to website and in class
* Motivation/Attitude
* Craftsmanship
* Depth of investigation
* Risk taking
* Teamwork and individual growth


## Diversity/Civility/Citizenship

No learning can truly occur without accepting each other’s differences — those that we inherit and those that we choose. This course, this Department and this College thrive on self-expression. Students and faculty should feel comfortable using art and design as a means to understand themselves and their work. It is everyone’s responsibility to create an atmosphere of civility.

Additionally, juniors are expected to work in Design Center. Contributing to studio culture is an important part of being part of a community. Figure out ways to show your work to your peers between classes, whether informally or at certain points. You will learn as much from each other as you will from your teachers — there are 15 of you after all!


## Collaboration/Plagiarism/Appropriation
All work is built upon other work; whether explicitly or not. In this course, there will be opportunities to work with your classmates to build something that is shared. Particularly with many deadlines and when learning a new skill, other people’s work may offer a pathway forward. What you do with what you see is important and can be the difference between riffing, appropriating, copying and stealing. As a general rule of thumb, if you see something you are excited about (in class or outside), understand the context in which it was made. What was the design responding to, communicating, and to whom. A deeper understanding of other people’s work generally produces additional ideas, realizations and starts to “fork” the idea (thank you, Github). It’s rare that your design problem is exactly like someone else’s. It is rare that you share the same values, interests, skills, as someone else. Referencing another person’s work can make sense (logo parodies, etc) if that fits your concept. In a school environment it’s best to check in with your teacher to see how to best make your own work truly your own.
