---
layout: default
title: Week 5
date: 2017-10-09

---

## Plan

* Submit by then documentation (or URL) of your first project along with a paragraph explaining what the project is about (its intentions, audience, how it satisfies project goals, etc). Put your projects in Slack so others can see (general?).

* We’ll see Miro’s presentation and website

Let’s talk/look at private sector inventions and see how they might help the City Council project…

Let’s prep for Nirva/Meghan Kallman event…

Time to deal with our own website!

* Tool to enable democratic decisions in GD, at schools, etc
* The way we make a site (or use the web). Decentralized. Like 2nd option from assignment 1
* Push out what we've learned/made (content is important)




## Unit 2: From private to public

Capitalism and democracy are strange bedfellows. Capitalism collects wealth and power, with that power seeking growth at all costs. In this unit, we seek how to divert our consumptive and creative attention away from private interests to the common good – to public interests. What can be learned from the tremendous innovation being funded by the private sector? How might innovations meant for ease and commerce be diverted into the social good in the form of tools, systems, and the like?

#### Readings/References

* [Here's my plan to save Twitter](https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2016/sep/29/save-twitter-buy-platform-shared-ownership)
* [The Case for a Taxpayer-Supported Version of Facebook](https://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2017/05/the-case-for-a-taxpayer-supported-version-of-facebook/524037/)
* [Zello tops US app store as the walkie-talkie for hurricane volunteers](https://techcrunch.com/2017/09/10/zello-tops-us-app-store-as-the-walkie-talkie-for-hurricane-volunteers/)


### Week 4: Oct 2, 2017

* Review  *Project 1*
* Discuss unit 2

Project Two: Visit the Providence City Council and propose a project based on the meeting. There are many things you could do (from augmented reality layers, to getting more people to attend, etc). Given the unit quesetion, consider how what the private sector has learned might work for the public.

### Week 4: Oct 9, 2017
* Share your findings from the Council meeting. Revise for next week.
