---
layout: default
title: Week 2
date: 2017-09-17

---


## Group Website

* *Tragedy of the Commons* The tragedy of the commons is an economic theory of a situation within a shared-resource system where individual users acting independently according to their own self-interest behave contrary to the common good of all users by depleting or spoiling that resource through their collective action.
* GitHub (everyone signs up and is added to repo, downloads app)
* Jekyll publishing system. Markdown.
* Repo as playground
* [Bindery](https://evanbrooks.info/bindery/) as likely output mechanism. Look at it. Who wants to install?


## Research projects

Each of you was asked to choose an organization from a provided list (or suggest another) and make a presentation via a website by a date chosen in week 2. [Here is the link](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1OAJ9aUnOGOpoQdGYAhQdMmB9MGnQWZS3hA7caDqpt0s/edit)

## Public list

Our list of public names should continue, as it can be a publishable list by the class. [Add here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1zVYmPPERzy-PtCRwVjiVq2YaQQgL6DIRCCJAnx02W44/edit).
 Show GitHub, Jekyll and Bindery
* Meet in small groups about projects
* 11am talk and activity by Ryan Laughlin
* Based on what Ryan shows us. Either take some thing from Providence Open Data and turn it into a form that people would benefit from or collect data from your public site and imagine it on the site. Create your own data source that tells something about the community you live in.

## Small group review of projects

We'll have about 1.5 hours to discuss in-progress projects. Let's divy up that time and have everyone discuss what site they chose and why, and what ideas are developing for the web.
